OLYMPUSWIFI
www.github.com/MSGENDO/OLYMPUSWIFI

Summary: This program allows the user to download images from a wireless enabled Olympus camera, leaving the originals on the SD card.

  OS:      Windows 10 and Ubuntu 18.04 both working well, Mac OS not tested
  DevTool: Lazarus 2.06 / FPC3.04 (www.lazarus-ide.org)
  Camera: Olympus OM-D E-M10 Mark I, Mark II, and Mark 3 tested working
  
  Why develop this program?  Olympus makes Android and iOS apps (Oi.Share) to allow WiFi download of images from their cameras but they do not have a stand alone app for PC, Mac   
  or Linux desktops. The new Olympus WorkSpace app can do wireless image transfers but its pretty cumbersome, and not automated.  While a web browser can be pointed at the   
  camera URL, this is a hassle ans also automated downloading of image files is not possible using a web interface, or using the mobile and tablet Oishare app.  Now that the  
  previous EyeFi WiFi enabled SD cards are no longer made, a WiFi connection for Windows, Linux and Mac is needed.

  Developers:  How it works: Main class TOiShareReader, inherited from a TfpHTTPClient component, manages the WiFi connection to the camera over a wireless signal.
                The TfpHTTPClient is a component which is not installed in Lazarus by default and needs to be installed as included in the fpWeb library
                using Menu|Package!Install/Uninstall Packages. 
                The code is in Object Pascal in the free Lazarus / Free Pascal IDE which can be downloaded from www.lazarus-ide.org  


  'HOW TO USE THIS PROGRAM  

     1.   Take some photos on your Olympus camera
     2.   Use the Olympus camera menu to select Connection to Smartphone.  This starts the camera WiFi server.
     3.   Connect your computer to this WiFi signal in the usual way for your operating system
     4.   Run this OlympusWIFI program
     5.   App Settings (Page 3): i)   Select your model of camera.  If your model is not there then use the Add button to add it.
                                 ii)  Ensure the "Olympus Camera Server URL" is set correctly.
                                      This is the same URL address minus the "/DCIM" you can type into a web browser to access your camera.
                                      Change the server URL if needed
                                      e.g. Model E-M10 Mark I URL = "http://oishare", Model E-M10 Mark III URL = "http://192.168.0.10"
                                 iii) Ensure the "SDCard Root Directory" is set correctly. This is usually "/DCIM". Need initial forward slash.
                                 iv)  Test your camera is connected with the "Test Camera Connection" button.
                                      If connected the text box below will fill with HTTP data from your camera.
                                      If not connected there will be no data.
                                      Save this HTTP data to file with the "Save Camera Data To File" button. This text file can be
                                      emailed to me at MSGEndoDoc@gmail.com so that I can improve the program.
     6.   App Transfer Images Page (Page 1)
                                 i)   Set the download directory ("Transfer Files to This Directory").  Camera images will end up here.
                                 ii)  Option 1: Press the grey triangle once to transfer images from camera to computer
                                      Option 2: Click the Repeat Timer checkbox and wait for the timer (e.g. 60s) to automate periodic image transfers.
     NOTE1:  Files downoaded will be remembered and not downloaded again on later transfers.
     NOTE2:  App Download History page (Page 2) lists all previously downloaded files.
             Deleting selected file records here will allow those images to be download again from the camera on later transfers.
     NOTE3:  The Download history is stored in the text file OlympusCameraDownloadRecord.txt.  Do not edit this file
     NOTE4:  The list of camera models with known connection URL are stroed in the ini file OlympusCameraModels.ini. Do not edit this file.
     NOTE5:  Have added a filename prefix box in the GUI on Page 1 so downloaded image filenames will be prefixed by whatever you 
             write in this box e.g. "Client John at Beach_300120_"   Note that you can not use char /,\,:,*,",<,>,| in filenames 

     Enjoy

     Martin Gale (Copyright 2020)
     msgendodoc@gmail.com.au
     www.github.com/MSGENDO/OLYMPUSWIFI
     This program is open source and can be used for commercial and non commercial purposes (MIT licence) so long as
     full acknowledgement is made of the authors original contribution in any distribution of the derived work. The software is as is,
     and absolutely no warranty of suitability of purpose or efficacy is given, and the authors accept no liability whatsoever
     for its use, consequences or effects. If it is not suitable for your purpose then do not use this software.
     Otherwise, please make good use of it.

See comments in the code for further explanations

Enjoy

Martin Gale
msgendodoc@gmail.com
// TODO: need different EOL for Linux/macOS
// TODO: Work out how to automatically seek and connect to the WiFi SSID signal even though another wifi signal may previously be connected - on Win and Linux
     
